--- 
layout: post
title: slashhardcore.rb is a station tuner for Digitally Imported radio
wordpress_id: 31
wordpress_url: http://blog.logankoester.com/scripts/slashhardcore
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 29 Aug 2007

<p class="new">I updated this script! Forgot to bind the /hardcore command before. Grab it <a href="http://logankoester.com/files/slashhardcore.rb">now</a>!</p>
I was surprised how easy it is to write an <a href="http://www.xchat.org/">XChat</a> plugin in <a href="http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/">Ruby</a>, even though it would be cooler to see a the xchat-ruby bindings pimped out <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_programming_language">DSL</a> style...oh well.
<p class="download">Download <a href="http://logankoester.com/files/slashhardcore.rb">slashhardcore.rb</a></p>
<p class="information">Windows users must modify <strong>@launcher</strong> to the path to their Winamp, Firefox, IE, or other shoutcast-compatible player.</p>

<pre><code lang="ruby">
# slashhardcore.rb - A faster way to tune in than the playlist bot.
# Should work on Windows if you set a valid browser/winamp location.
#
# Usage: Put in your $HOME/.xchat2 directory to autoload, and restart xchat,
# or type "/load /path/to/slashhardcore.rb"
#
# Commands: /pls <station, /stations (list stations), /hardcore
#
# Author: Logan Koester <logan@logankoester.com>

include XChatRuby

class SlashHardcore < XChatRubyPlugin

	attr_accessor :launcher

	def initialize( plugin )
		@launcher = "/usr/bin/firefox"
		hook_command( "pls", XCHAT_PRI_NORM,
			method ( :pls ),
			"Use /pls <station> to tune in. Use /stations to check list
			of stations at di.fm"
		)
		hook_command( "stations", XCHAT_PRI_NORM,
			method ( :stations_list ),
			"Fetches an updated list of DI.fm stations"
		)
		hook_command( "hardcore", XCHAT_PRI_NORM,
			method ( :hardcore ),
			"Tunes into the happyhardcore.com radio stream"
		)
		puts_fmt "Digitally Imported!"
	end

	# Alias for /pls hardcore
	def hardcore (words, words_eol, data)
		puts_fmt "Hardcore is good for you!"
		play "hardcore"
		return XCHAT_EAT_ALL
	end

	# Tunes you in using your browses's default application
	# for *.pls files
	def pls (words, words_eol, data)
		station = words[1]
		puts_fmt "Tuning into #{station} (using #{@launcher})"
		@plugin.command( "/msg #candyball test" )
		play station
		return XCHAT_EAT_ALL
	end

	def play (station)
		exec "#{@launcher} http://di.fm/mp3/#{station}.pls" if fork == nil
	end

	# Returns the playlist filenames of playlists at di.fm
	def stations_list (words, words_eol, data)
		require 'open-uri'
		uri = "http://www.di.fm/mobile/?type=mp3"
		index = URI.parse uri
		list = index.read.to_s.scan(/="\/mp3\/(.*)\.pls/).flatten
		puts_fmt list.join ", " # CSV string
		return XCHAT_EAT_ALL
	end
end
</code></pre>
