--- 
layout: post
title: Fun with ion3
wordpress_id: 204
wordpress_url: http://blog.logankoester.com/?p=204
---

h2. {{ page.title }}

p(publish_date). 07 Oct 2009

<blockquote>
  <a href="http://www.modeemi.fi/~tuomov/ion/intro.html">Ion</a>™ is a tiling tabbed window manager designed with keyboard users in mind.
</blockquote>

In recent years I've been a <a href="http://www.gnome.org/">GNOME</a> / <a href="http://www.compiz-fusion.org/">Compiz</a> guy, but while I've enjoyed it's tight integration with <a href="http://www.ubuntu.com/">Ubuntu</a> and flashy effects, I've always missed the simplicity of so-called minimalist window managers, mainly <a href="http://www.fvwm.org/">fvwm</a>. These days, however, practically everything I do happens inside a <a href="http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/">Firefox</a>, <a href="http://www.vim.org/">gvim</a>, or <a href="http://directory.fsf.org/project/gnome-terminal/">gnome-terminal</a>.

I want keyboard-driven. I want scriptable. And I don't want windows hiding behind other windows. Ever.

Enter <a href="http://www.modeemi.fi/~tuomov/ion/intro.html">ion3</a>. I've only been using it for the last 24 hours, and even though I haven't memorized all of the keymaps, or learned how to code in <a href="http://www.lua.org/">Lua</a> (yet!), I already love it. So far the only problem I've not been able to overcome is a bug in the latest <a href="http://www.adobe.com/products/flashplayer/">Adobe Flash</a> that breaks fullscreen video. This isn't specific to ion3 - it's a problem with any focus-follows-mouse system. I <a href="http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=462690#50">hear there is a workound</a>, but it didn't seem to work for me. I consider it a microscopic trade-off for such an efficient window manager. Many of my previously sluggish applications now run incredibly fast, and with a couple days of practice I'll be working faster too.
<h3>Installation</h3>

<pre><code lang="bash">$ sudo apt-get install ion3 ion3-dev ion3-scripts ion3-doc</code></pre>

Now just log out, choose <strong>ion3</strong> and start a new session. The first time you log in you'll be greeted with the man page, which I highly suggest reading. If you try not to "cheat" by using the mouse, you'll pick up almost everything in a couple of hours, and from there you'll find yourself navigating faster and faster until you don't have to think about it at all. Just like vim.
Ion is both simple and well-documented, so it would be pointless for me to write introductory tutorial. Instead, here are a couple tricks I've discovered.

<h3>Modifying your configuration</h3>

One of the first things you're going to want to do when you're done messing around is change a few settings. For the most part, this is done in a file called <em>cfg_ion.lua</em>. Copy the system-wide file (I found mine at <em>/etc/X11/ion3/cfg_ion.lua</em>) to  ~/.ion3/cfg_ion.lua and open it with a text editor.

<pre><code lang="bash">
$ mkdir ~/.ion3
$ cp `locate cfg_ion.lua | head -1` ~/.ion3/cfg_ion.lua
$ gvim ~/ion3/cfg_ion.lua
</code></pre>

You'll need to restart Ion for your changes to take effect. Don't worry, all your applications will stay open; only the window manager needs to be restarted. Hit <strong>F12</strong> and type <em>session/restart.</em>

I messed this file up a few times experimenting, and I'll probably mess it up a few more. If you screw up this file like I did, your <strong>F12</strong> shortcut can disappear, and you'll need another way to restart Ion after you've fixed it. Keep a terminal open whenever you're editing, because you may not be able to launch one. The trick to restart Ion from the console is simple:
<pre><code lang="bash">
$ ps -e | grep ion3 # 21108 ?        00:00:16 ion3
$ kill -USR1 21108
</code></pre>

<h3>Remapping Mod1</h3>

The <strong>Mod1</strong> key is used to initiate most interactions with Ion. On most systems, this is <strong>Alt</strong>. This is usually a very bad choice, because a lot of other applications need the <strong>Alt</strong> key for other things. I tried the Flying Window key, but it turns out it's in a very uncomfortable place on the keyboard. The number keys are used a lot. Try reaching <strong>Win+6</strong>, and you'll see what I mean. <strong>CapsLock</strong> has been working great for me, and as an added bonus, makes it much more work to shout on IRC.

Check your keymaps with <strong>xmodmap -pm</strong>. On my system, <strong>Mod3</strong> was unused, so I remapped <strong>CapsLock</strong> to that.

Edit (or create) <em>~/.Xmodmaprc</em> and insert these lines at the bottom...
<pre><code lang="bash">
remove Lock = Caps_Lock
add Mod3 = Caps_Lock
</code></pre>

Then run it...
<pre><code lang="bash">/usr/bin/X11/xmodmap ~/.Xmodmaprc</code></pre>

Also add this line to <em>~/.Xsession</em> so it is run automatically whenever you start X.

If your <strong>xmodmap -pm</strong> now reads... 

<pre><code lang="lua">mod3        Caps_Lock (0x42)</code></pre>

then you're in luck! Now you just need to edit the META variable near the top of your <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><em>cfg_ion.lua</em></span> to reflect the change 
<pre><code lang="lua">META="Mod3+"</code></pre>
and restart.

All done! I hope you enjoy learning and using Ion3 as much as I have. I don't think I'll be switching again any time soon.
